we return again to our annual awards
show series where we recap a year's
worth of content to distill down our
opinions on the best of the best
hardware that we've tested we also like
to talk about some of the worst trends
and biggest disappointments in these
pieces
hopefully shaming some of the industry
into doing better things next year and
also building a parts list for our
disappointment build that we do annually
this episode focuses on the best gaming
GPUs of 2019 with categories like best
overall most well-rounded best modding
support best budget and so on Nvidia and
AMD have flooded warehouse shelves with
cards over the past 11 months but it's
finally calming down and coming to a
close
time to recap the best GPUs of 2019 with
all the links in the description below
for each card before that this video is
brought to you by the be quiet dark rock
slim keeping a high performance focused
but reducing the footprints to
accommodate full memory slot
compatibility the dark rock slim comes
with one of be quiet silent wins three
120 millimeter fans built for low noise
operation the dark rocks limit vert eyes
is cooling capability up to 180 watts
EDP
but mixes in a matte black out color
design to combine performance and looks
learn more at the link in the
description below couple reminders here
as we do for all these awards shows
these are not as data centric as our
reviews if you want a lot of data on a
specific model of card or maybe a head
the head of two cards similarly price
then check out reviews for that we've
been uploading them all year you can
search the channel and find them pretty
easily this is more about getting a
distilled down list to help people who
maybe build a PC once every three years
or just didn't watch everything for the
year to pick their parts so we could
easily just break this into price
categories from 150 to 1300 hours and
produce a list of here's the cards in
each category we're trying to be a
little bit firmer with our cards we like
and don't like here for each pricing and
so instead of just doing straight prices
we also broke it down to things like
feature set enthusiast modding support
if it's kind of a project card versus
just any old gaming video card this will
hopefully give people on the fence
enough information to make a firmer
decision and not be wishy-washy between
devices separately we're not as focused
on which partner models to buys this
isn't a rounding up of 200 partner
skiers
across every video card that exists is
instead a focus on the GPU itself
although we will talk about the partner
models a little bit in here and then
finally the launch this here is supposed
to be mostly done for GPUs now the 1650
Subaru is one of the last ones but Andy
is supposed to have some lower end Navi
cards coming out at some point in well
in a future that we don't quite know
when yet but the rumors about it and
it's supposed to be the RX 5000 series
which they did officially announce as
well but it was for system integrators
si so that'd be someone like CyberPower
I'm a power so forth and those cards
might launch in December might launch in
January or if they launch in December we
don't know if it's a paper launch or a
real launch either way for the budget
category just keep in mind that there
might be one more device sliding into
your DMS before the end of the year I
shouldn't have said that I hate it at me
there should be there might be one
device coming out before the end of the
year and if you can wait if you don't
need to jump on the Black Friday buying
craze then wait and see what happens in
the first couple weeks of December and
if it's not available yet you can move
forward with whatever purchase you were
going to make in time for potentially
the holidays but we'll keep you update
on that anyway let's get into the list
of the best and some of the worst cards
along with the disappointments and the
worst trend which is well probably
expected our first award is for Best
Overall which we're assigning based on
criteria of competitive pricing good
performance and most gaming scenarios
overclocking support and partner card
selection all totaled we're giving this
to the RX 5700 XT GPU if we were talking
about straight performance the obvious
winner would be either a Titan RT acts
for a 2082 yacht but those blow out the
budget for most of the user base the RT
X 2070 super also will get a mention for
performance later in the next category
but for this one we're factoring in how
cost-effective the GPU is its partner
ecosystem and enthusiast modding support
alongside various other smaller items
the RX 5700 XE has a diverse ecosystem
of partner model cards that includes
some exceptional options that price is
relatively close to MSRP Nvidia of
course also has a wide ecosystem of
partner models but this is the first
time in a long time and these really had
that and some of the ones that came out
are really good like the sapphire nitro
the pulse or even the gigabyte gaming OC
which is a rather simple card the r700
xt pulse again for instance is one of
the best options on the market for 1080p
1440 and 4k gaming but it manages to
stick close to the actual AMD MSRP and
price itself at around 420 dollars at
time of writing we see options for as
low as four hundred ten dollars which is
an incredibly good deal the r-tx 2070
super does offer more outright
performance but it's also priced further
away typically in the range of five
hundred dollars the extra performance
uplift isn't really worth it for a lot
of users we think the 50 to 100 XT also
gets best overall for its enthusiast
modding support something we'll talk
about more with the 5700 later like the
5700 this card can be tweaked with
Radeon power play tables despite aim
these attempts to lock this down and so
it's a fun project card for enthusiasts
who want to play around more with
frequencies and voltages 4k gaming at
$410 with actually good graphics
settings and high-ish frame rates is an
accomplishment that AMD can be proud of
for this generation as a bonus mention
although AMD doesn't win outright in the
power efficiency category especially
with a process shrink versus nvidia in
its favor will note that the Navi GPUs
are nearing parity for the first time in
several generations when you look at
price versus price categories our next
award is for most well-rounded most
well-rounded needs a mix of high-end
gaming support particularly at higher
resolutions alongside overall
versatility of the GPU this includes its
performance and non gaming applications
but gaming adjacent applications like
streaming or encoding and acceleration
and professional applications would also
be included in this list most well
rounded goes to the Nvidia r-tx 2070
super the 2070 super ends up one price
category higher than the 5700 XT and
isn't as open with modding and OC
support although to be fair
AMD didn't want to be open it just it is
but the 2070 super is generally a higher
performing card at roughly 10% uplift on
average
although scaling at 4k can grow to about
12 or 13 percent depending on which
partner models are tested we've also
found that although
I've been somewhat overwhelming with
frequency this year the nvidia driver
updates have typically aligned with game
updates and without major issues and
these na'vi still contains basic issues
with tasks as simple as setting a fan
curve and we need to see its driver
package improve before we're ready to
assign the xt an award for being most
well-rounded it's good overall hence its
receipt of best overall award but Andy
has a lot of room yet to improve in the
GPU department but this category is for
the 2070 super aside from its generally
advantaged to position and gaming the RT
X 2070 super also offers a suite of
useful features for other applications
CUDA acceleration greatly speeds up
renders and software like Adobe Premiere
and blender which have both recently had
updates to better leverage CUDA blender
especially with 2.81 where RT X is
getting usage as well and things like
Eevee will be able to better leverage
the GPU for real-time playback
separately from that anyway the env anq
solution in torren is also
significantly improved over the last
generation allowing an easy solution for
same system video recording or streaming
and instances where CPU resources can't
be spared in testing done by our friend
a post Vox on YouTube you should check
him out he's an expert on streaming
quality and V encoders video quality is
a strong suit for streaming and gameplay
capture that said with the prevalence of
AMD's rise in CPUs and they're off to
overstuffed core offerings and I mean
that in the most affectionate possible
way this type of capture can also be
more easily pushed via x264 than before
but enemy encoder is really good right
now
finally 4k gaming at high settings is
accessible on the 2070 super in most
instances tested as is relatively high
refresh gaming at lower resolution this
award is for best enthusiast GPU for
this we're choosing the rx 5709 xt the
50 some 100 ticks a lot of boxes but we
like it most as an enthusiast tuning
card the 57 100 can be modified to
approach the 5700 xt levels of
performance without extreme cooling by
using a combination of bios flashes
power play tables and of course a good
selection of your base PCB and cooler
from the partners the 5700 xt also has
power play table opportunities of course
but the 5,700 can be unlocked past its
artificial segmentation
lockdown made by AMD with some mods and
that allows it to meet the 5700 XT
performance in games which are not bound
by compute unit count but rather bound
by frequency in most games the 5700 XT
of course will still lead and you can
always overclock it more but the 57 100
you can get close enough that it doesn't
much matter and again if you just want
something fairly affordable in the 350
ish price range 360 it's a fun card to
play around with the 5700 performs
excellently in comparative gaming
performance too in our partner card
testing we found the power color red
dragon to be the best performer given
the price about 360 USD MSRP about 350
with some of the holiday sales
the red dragon also did well for
thermals noise and gaming performance
with mods affording the Headroom
required to pull bigger overclocks
through the card all this is to say that
the 5709 xt GPU is already good but we
like it most for its accidental support
despite a of these efforts of
enthusiasts tweaking communities it's
good enough to buy for normally use yes
but anyone who enjoys tuning and playing
with hardware on maybe a Saturday where
you don't have much else to do than
research and mess around on the computer
those people should consider the 5700
GPU one major honorable mention here we
assign these awards based on the literal
GPU meaning the silicon not the video
card or the PCB that's made by partners
we do however want to highlight the RT X
xx atti kingpin card by EVGA if you've
got a bigger budget like a lot bigger
nearing $1,800 and have some startup
interest in the type of overclocking we
do on live streams the kingpin 20/80 Ti
is the real enthusiasts dream card for
2019 we didn't give it the award since
the 2080 ti itself is not one from this
year and to the best enthusiasts tuning
solution but also because the 2080 ti
kingpin is already pre modded but anyone
interested in big overclocks on its
stock liquid cooler or with liquid
nitrogen should be in line for the 2080
TI can pit both JS to sense and i used
this card in a live overclocking battle
with liquid nitrogen and we really
enjoyed working with it it doesn't fit
the nature of our awards today but the
card is impressive enough to get an
honorable mention and to really
reiterate the points as we showed in our
review
the card you don't need to be an ln2
enthusiast to still do a lot with
overclock you miss this author is
afforded to you to bypass all kinds of
nvidia native limitations and that's
what makes it fun our award for best
mid-range will go to the gtx 1660 super
we consider mid-range pricing to be in
the 200 to 300 ish segment but this of
course is totally nebulous and somewhat
subjective based upon an individual as
well
older pricing models established a clear
high end at the $500 mark
despite the industry's unfortunate
departure from this pricing structure
the closest andy competitor to the 1660
super we think that's what it's called
the there's been a lot of nvidia cards
this year the 1660 supers closest
competitor would be the RX 590 which is
an overclocked rx 580 which is an
overclocked rx 480 which is well that
was actually sort of new but if you get
the idea the 1660 super is not only more
efficient than performance to power but
also able to supersede the 590 in frame
rate and frame time pacing in general
the 1660 super comes with the annoyance
of being flanked by Nvidia zone 1660
which we think is mostly obsolete at
this point and at 1660 Ti which is
definitely obsolete at this point but
only because of Nvidia zone 1660 super
the improvement with the 1660 Ti is
about two percent to four and a half
percent on average maybe five every now
and then and that means you shouldn't be
wasting the headspace even thinking
about it
the 1660 super achieves almost all of
the performance of a ti but for less
money and the performance deficit isn't
even meaningful and is rarely noticeable
to the user despite potential to be
measurable with tools the 1660 super is
an excellent fit for 1080p gaming at
generally high refresh rates it's also a
good performer for 1440p score in north
of 60fps and almost all the titles we
tested at relatively high settings we
wouldn't recommend the card for high
resolutions than 2560 by 1440 for most
instances if 1080p is more your style
we're giving our best budget award to
the last-minute GTX 1650 super the 1650
super is priced at around $160 and
manages performance that typically meets
the rx 580
or sits within a couple of percentage
points above or below it the RX 580
cards are priced all over the place
right now but mostly set around the $180
mark for a key
by options with a few offerings at 160
they're becoming rarer which limits its
argument further but the 1650 super is a
rough equivalence with a reduced power
footprint and modernized feature set
makes it a victor in the budget category
the $150 price points is an important
one for PC builders who are trying to
maximize performance without exceeding a
500 to $600 total build cost as
compromises our a must at this price
point it's okay to sacrifice higher
resolution performance for good value
and performance with a 1080p glass
display one may be honorable mention
here we can't we can't really commit to
that because we haven't tested that
tested it but Andy's supposed to have
some lower end GPUs probably towards
this price class eventually coming out
they're going to system integrators
first that'd be companies like cyber
power for example and then they'll hit
the enthusiast market but there should
be some other our x-series 5000 cards
coming out in the well maybe in December
for launch but we don't have firm
timelines it's mostly rumors online
right now
either way though a lot of people are
buying this weekend next so we can't
really work with a card that doesn't
exist and also we don't know the
availability our stock and won't until
it comes out and it might be more of a
January thing for when it's really fully
available but we wanted to put it on
your radar in case you can afford to
wait an extra couple weeks because it
might be worth it to see how and these
are rx 5000 series launches continue for
the lower price class but we'll have to
wait and see the award for biggest
disappointment is split in a two-way tie
with a third as an honorable mention
we're between the Andy Radeon 7 which
launched and died in only about 5 months
and the NVIDIA GTX 1650 non-super which
died in the second it launched we dubbed
that one as quote dead on arrival in our
launch day review the Radeon 7 first
this one was disappointing for a lot of
reasons but the primary of those is that
it launched on February 7th of 2019 and
slowly vanished from the stores between
May and July of the same year when the
super refresh happened about nine months
after the initial r-tx launch a lot of
people talked about buyer's remorse for
initial purchasers of r-tx cards if
anything the Radeon 7 people
needs some sympathy right now because
Radeon 7 is something that even late
adopters of the RT X series cards come
look out and go you know what maybe I
didn't have it so bad this is mostly for
a good reason
for AMD which is that the rx 5200 XT it
was able to minimally match the Radeon 7
performance in gaming but at a price
point of $400 instead of about $700 and
he delivered a massive generational
improvement in his performance at a
lower cost which is a very good thing
but Radeon 7 was clearly a last minute
Xuan to try and dump remaining silicon
or maybe meet partner requirements with
its boundaries either way Radeon 7 was
born with numerous driver anomalies that
were never resolved before its early
death and the only thing really going
for it was that it did thanks to its
memory do really well in some production
and workstation applications and we do
have numbers on that for when we did a
workstation GPU roundup but overall it
was a disappointing card we hardly knew
ye then there's the gtx 1650 non-super
which we said died on arrival for its
comparatively poorer performance versus
the rx 570 the rx 570 is a two-year old
card that was built on top of a three
year old GPU the 1650 filled a single
market which was small low-power video
outs with extremely minimal ability to
process menial GPU loads our problem was
that this reduced power consumption was
largely meaningless for budget buyers
who care more about maximizing
performance without stretching their
dollars to thin than they do about an
extra couple watts ultimately this is a
sort of sliding scale with power and as
a card gets lower end the power output
doesn't matter quite as much as at the
high end but it filled one extremely
narrow market the 1650 was not
competitive at it's ridiculous launch
price of 150 to 170 dollars that was
completely crazy so Nvidia and Andy can
share the award for biggest
disappointment we'll cut a cube in half
with a dremel and send one to each
office and then maybe they can combine
their powers at CES and kill us or
something our next award is for the
worst trend of 2019 we have these for
each end of your recap and so far all of
them have had the same worst trend
category which is pointless product
segmentation the level of segmentation
we've seen in every category this year
all the way down to even P
cases only serves to confuse buyers and
flood the market you might think that
Intel would be uncontested for releasing
the Intel Core i 9 10 9 8 0 X II in
terms of naming but think again and
Vidya is trying its hardest to compete
in the past 13 months and Vidya has
released the following list of video
cards
RTX Titan X RTX 20 atti RT X 180 super
RT X 28 a RT x 2070 super Rd X 27 a RT x
2016 super RT x 2016 gtx 660ti gtx 1660
super GT x16 is 60 g c 1650 super n gtx
1650 now also they released the Quadro
RT x 4000 RT x 5000 RT x 6,000 r TX 8000
tesla TT 4 but we're less worried about
these since they're actually spaced out
goes to show that the professional
community won't put up with the type of
thing that the gaming community has - we
think NVIDIA deserves a very firm smack
for its desired said dazzle and confuse
buyers by releasing a product at nearly
$20 increments even the survival of
different solutions has gotten confusing
with the 1660 1660 TI + 1660 super I'm
still catching my breath all still
existing alongside each other even
though the 1660 Ti offers between 2% and
4.5% uplift overlay 1660 super that
level of segmentation is completely
unnecessary our rule is simple if it's
not sufficiently different it shouldn't
exist or should stop existing the reason
this happens is because NVIDIA has
learned that a mere price reduction is
comparatively boring and gets less
coverage and so it's just launching
pseudo new products to keep things
interesting we're fine with them
launching pseudo new products but where
Nvidia misstepped in our opinion was
decision to also keep many of the
predecessors alive the company
tactically killed the RT x 2018 on super
and technically killed the 2017 on super
in an official capacity but then the RT
x 2017 on super came back from the dead
with thousands of units ordered by so
the board partners recently the 2060 and
2060 super were both kept alive the
entire 1600 series has been kept alive
and with about 13 cards in the GeForce
line in one year NVIDIA has enough
device is where we wonder whether buyers
are just getting
used and buying the most expensive card
in their budget range to begin with
that'd be an easy solution after all
rather than spending hours potentially
researching five cards in a $150 stack
that does count to MD as well the only
company that has even more product
density is BitFenix for its Nova which
has something like 26 configurations
across a $40 price range either way we'd
like to see Nvidia find a way to produce
less confusion in the next year let's
provide some constructive feedback we'd
suggest being more aggressive and
cutting back the old SKUs as they're
replaced everyone should be happy then
and video gets to refresh rather than
announce a price cut which to be fair
does undeniably get less coverage to do
a price cut versus a new ish card but
reviewers can also stop complaining
about naming confusion oh and stop
making 1080 TI's we get it we like that
card a lot but it doesn't need to
replacements so Nvidia wins for the
worst trend of frontlets product
segmentation that's gonna be it for this
one thanks for watching as always you
can find the links to all these products
in the description below we also have
the article on the website and further
we're gonna be doing more of these so
we've got cases online already best CPUs
online already check both of those for
help with selections there especially
cases you probably won't find that in
too many places and then we also have
coverage of some additional product
categories coming up like coolers so
check back for all that subscribe to
catch it and you can go to store
documents excist on net to help us out
directly like by buying our GN shirts or
mod Matt's tool kits functional products
as well and patreon.com/scishow there's
access for some extra videos thanks for
watching we'll see you all next time
[Music]